---
date: 2015-11-01
---

#  CIC Geospatial Data Discovery Project Update November 2015

<!-- more -->



## November Activities
CIC Geospatial Task Force Meeting
Monthly, virtual meetings of the CIC Geospatial Task Force (members from all participant institutions). Topics included:
Status updates from each institution
GitHub demonstration (used for transferring metadata files and tracking changes)
Naming discussion (brainstorming on naming the portal something more memorable than “CIC Geospatial Data Portal”) ‒ this was an initial brainstorming, no decisions or recommendations have been made
Project Communication Plan ‒ plan for internal project communication strategies was finalized

## External Communication
The Metadata Coordinator has begun posting blog entries tracking the progress of the project on our Google Site: http://z.umn.edu/cicgddp

The Project Manager and the Metadata Coordinator participated in the Hydra Geospatial Interest Group call on November 19. Most of the discussion was in regards to the upcoming Geo4LibCamp. Stanford is hosting this three-day event at the end of January for groups “building repository and associated services for geospatial data” with a special focus on GeoBlacklight. Our project will have at least one member at the event.

## Work in Progress
Metadata Creation & Transformation
Initial focus on securing test set of metadata records from each institution to be used in workflow assessment.

Initial metadata files have been received from seven out of nine institutions. From these seven sets, a list of issues was identified, including missing information, records for aggregated sets rather than individual layers, and differing interpretations of how certain fields are used.

For this initial set of records from each institution, the CIC Geospatial Project Metadata Coordinator will complete the work of transforming and editing the records. This will allow the Metadata Coordinator to identify further issues and tailor workflows based on the incoming metadata in the future.

## Next Steps
Create a Metadata Steering Group to discuss, explore, and make recommendations about metadata issues that come up ‒ best practices, field usage, etc by the end of December.
Work through initial sets of metadata records in order to design effective and efficient workflows by the end of December.
Create an early (alpha) version of the portal by the end of January. A load of completed records into a test portal will help streamline the record ingest process.
