---
date: 2017-04-01
---

# Project Update April 2017

<!-- more -->
## April Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Interface & Usability Report

-   Continuation Proposal Update

-   Broken Links Update

### Project Updates

-   There are currently 5,680 records in the Geoportal, an 1% increase
    over the previous month, though this includes over 100 records
    being removed due to broken links that could not be resolved

### Continuation Proposal & New Participating Institutions

The [Continuation
Proposal](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0Bw-n3BDfLcu8NmMtUnZfbWNpZW8/view)
was accepted by all current project participants. In addition, the
University of Chicago and The Ohio State University will join the Big
Ten Academic Alliance Geospatial Data Project as of July 2017.

### Interface & Usability Report

The Interface Steering Group completed the [[Interface & Usability
Assessment
Report]](https://geobtaa.github.io/reports/interface-usability-report.pdf).
The document is an internal report on heuristic analysis, usability
testing, and Interface Steering Group recommendations for the Big Ten
Academic Alliance Geoportal.

### Task Force Member Role Descriptions

The Metadata Coordinator completed work on a document that outlines roles, responsibilities, and expectations for the Task
Force Members.

### Outreach

The Metadata Coordinated responded to requests for information by
sending project metadata documentation to librarians from Berkeley,
Arizona State University, and Colorado College.

## Work in Progress

### Maintenance

Task Force Members completed work on scripts to detect new, modified,
and deleted items in Esri Open Data Portals and Socrata data portals,
thereby streamlining the maintenance processes for both types of
portals.

### Documentation

The Metadata Coordinator completed work on a [Metadata Workflow
Handbook](https://z.umn.edu/gbl-handbook) for Task Force members, created a [[chart of ArcGIS metadata tools]](http://geospatialmetadatalibrarian.blogspot.com/2017/04/arcgis-metadata-toolbox-guide.html), and published a blog
post.

## Next Steps

-   Onboarding and orientation for new institutions will take place in
    June

-   Continue to develop digitized map metadata workflows

-   Continue processing incoming metadata records
