---
date: 2016-11-01
---

# Project Update November 2016

<!-- more -->



## November Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Report out on recent presentations

### User Testing

User testing took place at Michigan. Results will be compiled for review
by the Task Force and will also be presented at Stanford's
GeoBlacklight-focused Geo4LibCamp event in January. Additional user
testing will take place at Minnesota in December.

### Outreach & Promotion

Task Force members gave presentations and/or poster sessions about the
project at the Charleston Conference and the Digital Library Federation
Forum. The project was also promoted through presentations and/or
posters at GIS Day events at Indiana, Iowa, Penn State, and Minnesota.

## Work in Progress

### Metadata Coordination

The Project Metadata Coordinator continued to refine automated metadata
processing for digitized maps with the goal of publishing several
thousand in the next few months.

### Web Interface Improvements

The Project Metadata Coordinator is working with the Web Development
team at Minnesota to incorporate a blog feature into the Geoportal web
site. The blog with be implemented in December and will be the primary
vehicle for Task Force members and others to link to in promoting the
Geoportal.

## Next Steps

-   Interface Steering Group will be conducting user testing and will
     report back by January

-   Continue to develop digitized map metadata workflows

-   Continue processing incoming metadata records

-   Collection Development Steering Group will identify and prioritize
     non-BTAA data sets for ingest by the end of January
