---
date: 2019-06-01
---

# Project Update: June 2019

<!-- more -->

## Highlights

### Multipart Items

The team implemented a new image viewer that supports maps with multiple
pages or sheets.
Now, users can page through full atlases or a map series. This is an
important development in the [larger milestone of facilitating
multipart items in the
geoportal](https://github.com/BTAA-Geospatial-Data-Project/geoportal/milestone/11).

### Geospatial Data Citations

The Metadata Committee developed an initial guide to citing geospatial data found in the geoportal. The recommendation in the guide is currently style agnostic, but describes each element required for most formally
recognized styles.

The Application Development team followed up by implementing a citation widget in the geoportal. This allows a user to quickly copy and paste the necessary information from an item page into a research paper or
citation manager.

### Leadership Transitions

One of the BTAA GDP's main sponsors, Claire Stewart, is leaving the University of Minnesota to become Dean of Libraries at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln this July. After her departure, John Butler will be assuming the responsibility of chair of the Strategic Leadership Group
(SLG) and UMN's Kirsten Clark will become more active in an overall advisor role.

In the meantime, Stewart and Butler have worked to wrap up a primary SLG goal of interviewing AULs, deans, or specialists from participating Big Ten institutions to gather information about their interest in collective geospatial resource archiving and web services. They have completed nine interviews so far, with several more scheduled this month.

## Activities

### June 2019 Statistics 

* Total records: 21,344
* New records in May: 82
* Pageviews: 3892
* Sessions: 823
* Unique users: 633 


### Application Development 

-   Carried out a week long code sprint that resulted in bug fixes,
    maintenance updates, and new features. Read the full report
    here. 
-   Planning to post application developer position announcement after approval from Human Resources

### Collections

-   Monthly re-accessioning of ArcGIS Open Data records (33 new, 14
    retired)
-   Processing multi-part items from UMN UMedia to add to geoportal with
    new viewer

## Committees and Working Groups

### Steering Committee

-   Updated Task Force member
    roles 
-   Worked with communications staff at UMN to create multiple designs
    for hexagon stickers promoting the geoportal and polled the Task
    Force on preferred choice.
-   Hold an orientation session for new chairs at July meeting

### Communications Committee

-   Decided to coordinate "sprints" to work with committees on selected
    days to generate content. Scheduled first sprint for August 2019.

### Collections Development Committee

-   Updating Collections Strategy to include collection level records

### Interface Committee

-   Creating new guides for the Help page
-   Updating the layout of the Help page

### Metadata Committee

-   Completed a guide on citing geospatial
    data 
-   Create a tutorial or guide aimed at data providers on creating discovery metadata

### SLG Working Group

-   9 interviews conducted
-   Compile results of interviews

### ArcGIS Enterprise Organization Working Group

-   Identifying ArcGIS Enterprise Organization capabilities
-   Identifying potential use cases for ArcGIS web services

### Licensed Data Working Group

-   No volunteers yet
