---
date: 2017-06-01
---

# Project Update June 2017
<!-- more -->

## June Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Metadata Workshops

-   MapVault discussion

-   BTAA Library Director Meeting Update

### Project Update

-   There are currently 6,694 records in the Geoportal, a 2% increase
    over the previous month.

-   Usage Statistics (June 2017)

    -   Pageviews: 3,031

    -   Sessions: 649

    -   Unique users: 478

### Outreach

Four Task Force members completed and submitted an invited article for
peer-review. The article describes the background and origins of the
project and focuses on collaborative workflows and strategies for a
successful multi-institution collaboration.

### Community Support

Project Metadata Coordinator developed a meeting agenda for the newly
formed regular GeoBlacklight developers meetings and is helping to
facilitate a planned GeoBlacklight Code Sprint in late July. The project
will also be participating in the Code Sprint.

### New Institutions

Project Metadata Coordinator completed orientation and onboarding
activities for new Task Force members from the University of Chicago and
The Ohio State University.

## Work in Progress

### Metadata Transformation

Project Metadata Coordinator is working on an enhancement to the Esri
XSLT that transforms ArcGIS metadata to ISO 19139 that will add a more
specific geometry type.

### Strategic Leadership Group

The Project Lead and AUL Sponsors worked to finalize the membership for
the Strategic Leadership Group. Two "Senior-level representatives" and one "Field specialist" slots are
still pending.

## Next Steps

-   Continue to develop digitized map metadata workflows

-   Continue processing incoming metadata records

-   Finalize membership of Strategic Leadership Group
