---
date: 2017-05-01
---

# Project Update May 2017
<!-- more -->

## May Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Continuation Proposal Update

-   Metadata Documentation Update

-   Maintenance Work Flow Update

### Project Updates

-   There are currently 6,534 records in the Geoportal, an 15% increase
    over the previous month.

### Strategic Leadership Group

The BTAA Library Directors approved the [[Strategic Leadership Group
draft charge]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aZzRWnZ3T7PRy_Rz_G2Ca_7hve-pdyJtEl5T7_pixRw/edit?usp=sharing).
Next steps include finalizing the "Senior-level representatives" and
"Field specialists" to round out the group.

### Outreach & Collaboration

The Project Metadata Coordinator and the Spatial Data Analyst & Curator
prepared materials and co-presented a session for the Minnesota GIS/LIS
Spring Workshop Series entitled "Creating Geospatial Metadata with
ArcGIS" ‒ topics included overviews of metadata concepts, descriptive
metadata exercises, and steps related to the Minnesota geospatial
standard.

Members of the Steering Group participated in a group call with
GeoBlacklight developers in order to assist in the planning of a code
sprint this summer. Staff from Minnesota will contribute code, and will
also offer experience and expertise in the area of organizing meetings
and project management.

In addition, the Project Lead presented as part of a panel of
collaborative projects at the BTAA Library Conference.

## Work in Progress

### Major Cities

Task Force members are turning their attention to major cities in or
near their states and seeking out geospatial data. For example, this
month, over 800 records were added to the Geoportal for Washington,
D.C.

### GeoNetwork

The Project Metadata Coordinator worked to configure and customize the
new instance of GeoNetwork that has been set up with an external vendor.
The speed and reliability of the new instance will continue to improve
as the vendor consultants become more familiar with how the project is
utilizing the software.

## Next Steps

-   Onboarding and orientation for new institutions will take place in
    June

-   Continue to develop digitized map metadata workflows

-   Continue processing incoming metadata records

-   Finalize membership of Strategic Leadership Group
