---
date: 2018-02-01
---

# Project Update February 2018
<!-- more -->

## February Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee Updates

-   Geo4Lib Camp Report Out

-   Winter Code Sprint Report Out

-   Index Maps in GeoBlacklight

-   Quarterly Bulletin

### Project Update

-   There are currently 10,306 records in the Geoportal, an 20% increase
    over the previous month.

-   [Usage Statistics](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1i6Tsfx6uCJSIpP3GtfreKZXmdjUmExJ2OIYMThoqj64/edit#gid=1471013135)
   
    (February 2018)

    -   Pageviews: 4,446

    -   Sessions: 629

    -   Unique users: 436

### Application Developer

Application Developer completed technology version upgrades, submitted a
pull request to fix GeoBlacklight institutional icons for Indiana and
Illinois, and continued work on a [GeoBlacklight plugin to support
harvesting external image
assets](https://github.com/ewlarson/geoblacklight_sidecar_images).

### Coordination & Documentation

Project Metadata Coordinator published a [blog Post about Geo4Lib Camp
2018](http://geospatialmetadatalibrarian.blogspot.com/2018/02/geo4libcamp2018-index-maps.html), updated the Internal Communication
Plan document, compiled documentation on ArcGIS Open Data portals
including rate of change and examples of metadata records with unstable
identifiers, and hosted and moderated the [monthly GeoBlacklight online
community meeting.

## Work in Progress

### Revamped Committees

The new Collection Development, Communications, Interface, and Metadata
Committees began meeting. Initial meetings involved reviewing committee
guidelines and ground rules, as well as developing a committee charter
using consistent templates.

### Working Groups

SLG Working Group was formed and began developing an environmental scan to gather information about existing data repositories for participating
institutions, as well as initial work on a list of stakeholders for the
BTAA Geoportal.

ArcGIS Working Group contacted Esri open data and metadata staff to
follow up on a discussion Jack Reed began with them at Code4Lib. The
group also sent Esri staff the ArcGIS Working Group report from December
for their review.

## Next Steps

-   Strategic Leadership Group will meet in mid-March to continue
    discussion of future plans
