---
date: 2016-09-01
---

# Project Update September 2016

<!-- more -->



## September Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Steering Group updates

-   Geoportal comments

-   Metadata Record maintenance

-   Communications

### Geoportal Update

The [[Big Ten Academic Alliance Geoportal]](https://geo.btaa.org/)
now includes over 3,400 metadata records.

### Geoportal Help Page

Project metadata coordinator created a blog post with instructions for
how to search for records in the geoportal, which was turned into [[help
page content]](https://geo.btaa.org/help) on the geoportal with the
assistance of UMN Web Development.

### Collection Development

A Collection Development Steering Group was formed with members from
Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, Penn State, and Purdue. The group will make
decisions and recommendations on adding metadata records for openly
available data sets from outside the core set of states in an effort to
expand the collection of searchable metadata records in a way that is
focused and purposeful, but still allows users to discover useful data
from around the country and across the world. The group will be led by
Kelley O'Neal (Maryland) and will begin meeting in October.

## Work in Progress

### Digitized Maps

Work continues to develop and standardize workflows for the
transformation and ingest of metadata records for digitized maps. Much
of the work is concentrated on adding bounding box coordinates to the
metadata records that lack this information.

### Interface Steering Group

The Interface Steering Group met to continue the effort to assess the
interface and are working with a graduate student at Michigan to develop
a User Testing plan and task scenarios. The group will be coordinating
with the Metadata Steering Group as many perceived issues have to do
with metadata input, rather than interface output.

### Communication

The Project Metadata Coordinator began work to assess the internal
project Communication Plan, as the plan has been in place for a year. A
survey of Task Force members will inform any structural or strategic
changes to the plan going forward.

Web Development

Task Force members at Minnesota have begun regular meetings with UMN Web
Development. These regular meetings will help ensure continued
management and oversight of the digital environment related to the
Geoportal, both on the front-end and with the underlying technical
infrastructure.

## Next Steps

-   Interface Steering Group will be conducting user testing and will
     report back by January

-   Develop digitized map metadata workflows by the end of October

-   Continue processing the second round of metadata records

-   Collection Development Steering Group will identify and prioritize
     non-BTAA data sets for ingest by the end of December
