---
date: 2018-07-01
---
# Project Update July 2018
<!-- more -->

## July Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee & Working Group Updates

-   Governance review

-   Communication Channels Survey

### Project Update

-   There are currently 13,612 records in the Geoportal, an 3% increase
    over the previous month.
    
    -   Pageviews: 4,744

    -   Sessions: 980

    -   Unique users: 736

### Application Developer

Application Developer added new features to the development site for
testing, including a revised metadata schema, updated search facets, and
a new facet configuration on the home page. Also consulted with project
staff to develop Geoportal analytics visualizations in Tableau and
participated in the GeoBlacklight [Summer Code
Sprint](https://github.com/geoblacklight/geoblacklight/projects/2).

### Coordination & Documentation

Project Metadata Coordinator helped plan and facilitate [Summer Code
Sprint](https://github.com/geoblacklight/geoblacklight/projects/2)
for GeoBlacklight and published updated metadata schema documentation to OpenGeoMetadata and to project website.

## Work in Progress

Committees & Working Groups

Collection Development Committee discussed Open Data Portal
Inventory and the current scope of the Geoportal and also began planning for a group to outline scanned map processing workflows.

Communication Committee reviewed preliminary results from the
Communication Channels survey the draft User Personas.

Interface Committee synthesized results of May 2018 user testing and ranked proposed changes by importance.

Metadata Committee discussed subject facet simplification for scanned
maps and added the ArcGIS Working Group documents to the [Metadata
Resources](http://z.umn.edu/geometadata) page.

Analytics Working Group met with Application Developer and library staff
at UMN to discuss feasibility of analytics requested by Task Force
members and project committees.

User Personas & Stories Working Group distributed a User Personas document and created a form for collecting user stories.

## Next Steps

### Analytics Working Group

-   Finalize analytics possibilities and prioritize

### Collection Development Committee

-   Review analytics possibilities related to collection development

### Communications Committee

-   Create an External Communications Plan

-   Finish, and analyze results of, internal survey of communication
    channels available to Task Force members

### Interface Committee

-   Compile a report based on the results of usability testing

-   Metadata Committee

-   Review metadata resources site and new facet on development site
