---
date: 2018-05-01
---
# Project Update May 2018
<!-- more -->

## May Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee & Working Group Updates

-   Thumbnails in the Geoportal

-   Quarterly Bulletin

### Project Update

-   There are currently 12,517 records in the Geoportal, an 2% increase
    over the previous month.

    -   Pageviews: 6,467

    -   Sessions: 802

    -   Unique users: 505

### Application Developer

Application Developer implemented code to show thumbnail
previews when available, completed technology version upgrades, and consulted with UMN library staff to develop data visualizations in Tableau
related to Geoportal analytics.

### Coordination & Documentation

Project Metadata Coordinator updated the project website to include
scholarly articles and completed the Q2 2018 Quarterly Bulletin.

## Work in Progress

### Committees & Working Groups

Communication Committee is working to develop priorities and methods for
external communications, as well as an internal survey of communication
methods used by Task Force members.

Interface Committee is working toward a second round of usability
testing and reviewing the results from heat mapping of how users
interact with the geoportal.

Metadata Committee discussed the Best Practices for Open Data Portals
guide, facet limiting for the Data Type and Subject facets, and the
possibility of forming a working group to focus on subjects.

ArcGIS Working Group is finalizing the Best Practices for Open Data
Portals guide (for data providers) with a focus on publishing services and
metadata creation in ArcGIS Online.

## Next Steps

### Steering Committee

-   Examine action items from the December Summit

### Communications Committee

-   Create an External Communications Plan

-   Conduct an internal survey of communication methods used by Task
    Force members

### Interface Committee

-   Carry out usability testing
