---
date: 2016-12-01
---

# Project Update December 2016

<!-- more -->



## December Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Future Directions Discussion

-   User Testing Update

### Project Updates

-   There are currently 4,491 records in the Geoportal, a 15% increase
    over the previous month.

### Geoportal Maintenance

A process is now in place to generate a report containing broken links
to data sets. Each institution will receive their list of broken links,
investigate the issues, and report back.

### Outreach & Promotion

A [[blog page]](https://geobtaa.blogspot.com/) is now live
with posts to be added monthly. The posts will focus on promotion and/or highlight new data sets added to the geoportal.

## Work in Progress

### Evaluation of Additional Data Sets for Inclusion

The Collection Development Steering Group is working on a gap analysis
by institution and thematic data category to determine where we are
lacking data within the states represented by the participating
institutions, as well as recommendations for adding data sets that fall
outside the scope of the initial phase of the project.

### GeoBlacklight Metadata Schema

The Metadata Steering Group met to discuss GeoBlacklight's new metadata
schema and how to normalize keywords. They also added a synonym file for
state names and abbreviations to aid in discovery of data sets.

## Next Steps

-   Interface Steering Group will be conducting user testing and will
     report back by the end of January

-   Collection Development Steering Group will identify and prioritize
     non-BTAA data sets for ingest by the end of January

-   Continue to develop digitized map metadata workflows

-   Continue processing incoming metadata records
