---
date: 2018-12-01
---
# Project Update December 2018
<!-- more -->

## Highlights

The Interface Committee, Product Owner, and Application Developer
completed two long standing interface requests in December: a new
homepage design featuring the map search and a new layout for access
links on each item page. The improved design received praise from both
the Task Force and the GeoBlacklight community and is currently being
tested with a heatmap tool to determine how users are interacting with
it. 

The number of items in the geoportal received a big bump in December
with the publication of over 1000 records that were harvested from
Stanford University's repository on
[OpenGeoMetadata](https://github.com/OpenGeoMetadata). Although
these datasets were originally created by the University of Minnesota's
Institute on the Environment, this was the first time we ingested
metadata that had been created by another institution for a different
GeoBlacklight instance.

The Communications Committee put in extra time to finish a Communication Plan by the end of December. They have finalized a draft to present to the Steering Committee in early January and hope to being implementing it shortly thereafter. The plan includes additional listings of the geoportal on various geospatial data library pages, more frequent blog
postings, and social media outreach.

The SLG Working Group went through several iterations of developing
interview questions for project stakeholders that will help us determine
a potential expansion in project scope. Completing this set of questions
along with background information will be a project focus for early
January.

A major upgrade for Blacklight, the underlying framework for
GeoBlacklight, was released in December. The GeoBlacklight community,
including the BTAA GDP Application Developer and Product Owner, is
planning a codesprint in January to incorporate this upgrade. This will
result in the first "breaking" release of GeoBlacklight 2.0.


## Activities

### December 2018 Statistics

* Total records: 17,426 
* New records in December: 1,164
* Pageviews: 2899 
* Sessions: 828 
* Unique users: 683

### Application Development 

-   The Q4 2018 Release included a new design for the homepage that
    features the map search and thumbnails for genre.

-   The layout of the links on each item page was adjusted to make them
    more prominent.

-   AppSignal was configured for the geoportal to track errors and
    performance.

-   The Product Owner and the Application Developer put together a
    work plan for Q1-Q2 along with [GitHub project boards](https://github.com/BTAA-Geospatial-Data-Project/geoportal/projects) for each quarter.

-   The upgrade to Blacklight 7 and GeoBlacklight 2.0 is scheduled for
    Q1 2019.

### Coordination & Documentation

-   The Product Owner attended the [CNI 2018 Fall Membership meeting
    and co-presented with Stanford about
    GeoBlacklight](https://www.cni.org/topics/digital-curation/changing-the-geospatial-data-landscape-in-libraries).

-   We documented ArcGIS Hub [issues for Esri to address at Geo4LibCamp
    2019   and corresponded with an Esri developer about them.

### Collections

-   Published 96 new scanned map records and 1098 new geospatial records
-   Updated the Esri rate of change log
-   The Spatial Analyst & Curator updated the harvesting scripts to automate many default metadata elements and to pull nested information about distribution formats and links-  this will save a great deal of time per month.
-   The Metadata Coordinator updated the collection codes for county
    geoportals to match FIPs codes - this will facilitate spatial
    matching for future mapping projects

## Committees and Working Groups

### Communications Committee

-   Several members met with local communications professionals to
    discuss strategies for communications plans
-   Published December blog post
-   Finalizing a Communications Strategy
-   Created a new Communications Calendar
-   The committee will present full Communications Plan to Steering
    Group in January

### Interface Committee

-   Reviewed and approved the new homepage design
-   Implemented site heat mapping to analyze where users click on the
    homepage
-   The committee will review heat mapping results and recommend
    potential homepage changes

### Metadata Committee

-   Developing ideas for data provider outreach
-   Developing ideas for metadata training materials

### SLG Working Group

-   Developed background information on the challenge of ephemeral data
    and spatial data infrastructures
-   Refined potential institutional interview questions about interest
    in geospatial data archiving

Scanned Maps Working Group

-   Developing workflow graphics showing how each institution digitizes
    and catalogs their maps
-   Plan to create a best practices document to guide institutions on
    the most efficient methods for scanning and cataloging maps
