---
date: 2018-08-01
---
# Project Update August 2018
<!-- more -->

## August Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee, Working Group, and Product Owner Updates

-   Profile of State Open Data

### Project Update

-   There are currently 14,426 records in the Geoportal, a 6% increase
    over the previous month.

    -   Pageviews: 4,764

    -   Sessions: 929

    -   Unique users: 690

### Application Developer

Application Developer released Geoportal version 1.8.12, which added
support for show page static imagery for non-IIIF contributors, added a
caching mechanism for static images, rearranged show page elements to
prioritize embedded map/imagery, added sidebar leaflet map to
contextualize item geolocation, updated facet elements and ordering, and
migrated to a new production Solr schema.

### Coordination & Documentation

Project Metadata Coordinator co-wrote blog post for GeoBlacklight detailing summer code sprint, completed work on the [Metadata Handbook 2.0, migrated collection management database to Airtable, and created a [draft of a MARC to GeoBlacklight crosswalk for Metadata Committee to review.

## Work in Progress

### Committees & Working Groups

Collection Development Committee discussed Collection Management
Database, potentially revisiting the prioritization matrix for new collections,
and dataset organization by administrative unit. Identified co-leads for
the new Scanned Maps Working Group.

Communication Committee reviewed August blog
post and is planning to formulate an External Communication Plan based on
feedback from Task Force members based on the Communication Channels
survey.

Interface Committee met with Application Developer to get feedback on a
list of possible changes and will review mockups of changes going
forward.

Metadata Committee reviewed a list of Library of Congress genre terms for cartographic materials and proposed using this controlled vocabulary for the Subject field for scanned maps.

Analytics Working Group working to finalize analytics recommendations.

User Personas & Stories Working Group created anecdotes document from user stories. User Personas document completed.

## Next Steps

### Analytics Working Group

-   Finalize analytics possibilities and prioritize

### Collection Development Committee

-   Launch Scanned Maps Working Group

### Communications Committee

-   Will formulate an External Communication Plan by December 2018

### Interface Committee

-   Compile a report based on the results of usability testing

### Metadata Committee

-   Work on simplified subjects for new records
