---
date: 2017-01-01
---

# Project Update January 2017
<!-- more -->
## January Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Geo4LibCamp Report Out

-   Ongoing Maintenance Update

### Project Updates

-   There are currently 4,872 records in the Geoportal, an 8% increase
    over the previous month.

### Geo4LibCamp

The Metadata Coordinator, along with project participants from Michigan
and Purdue, attended and presented at Geo4LibCamp at Stanford.
Presentation topics by project participants included an overview of the
BTAA Geospatial Data Discovery Project and details from our usability
tests conducted at Michigan, Minnesota, and Purdue.

### Internal Project Documentation

The Metadata Coordinator created a technology plan document and updated
the communication plan document.

## Work in Progress

### Bounding Box Coordinates for Digitized Maps

Metadata Coordinator collaborated with Map Library staff at Minnesota to
come up with a process to add bounding box coordinates to metadata
records in Omeka that lacked the necessary information. Also worked with
Penn State participants to implement a workflow for adding bounding box
coordinates to ISO metadata records when needed.

### Metadata Cleanup

Metadata Coordinator is training a graduate research assistant to clean
up place names and keywords within the metadata records for all
institutions.

## Next Steps

-   Interface Steering Group will be developing a user testing report by
    the end of February

-   Collection Development Steering Group will identify and prioritize
    non-BTAA data sets for ingest by the end of March

-   Continue to develop digitized map metadata workflows

-   Continue processing incoming metadata records
