---
date: 2017-11-01
---

# Project Update November 2017
<!-- more -->

## November Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Technology Roadmap

-   December Summit

### Project Update

-   There are currently 8,394 records in the Geoportal, a 1% increase
    over the previous month.

-   Usage Statistics (November 2017)

    -   Pageviews: 5,447

    -   Sessions: 753

    -   Unique users: 505

### Publications & Outreach

Article authored by Task Force members was published in
[Collaborative
Librarianship](https://digitalcommons.du.edu/collaborativelibrarianship/vol9/iss3/7/).
The article describes the background and origins of the project and
focuses on collaborative workflows and strategies for a successful
multi-institution collaboration.

### ArcGIS Working Group

Under the leadership of the UMN Spatial Data Analyst & Curator, the
group produced a preliminary report. The group found that the main issues include lack of consistent treatment for identifiers for datasets, inconsistency in how ArcGIS Open Data Portals handle metadata, and a lack of consistent metadata workflows within data provider organizations.

### Maintenance & Metadata

Project Metadata Coordinator performed extensive cleanup of scanned map
metadata, including normalizing subject and place keywords, adding
bounding box centroids, and conducting troubleshooting of nonfunctioning
image links.

Project Metadata Coordinator created a [project on Open Science
Framework](https://osf.io/7auts/) to document metadata quality
research and tests for OpenGeoMetadata and adopted our OSF metadata
quality framework to describe the content, quality, and accessibility of
each BTAA collection in OpenGeoMetadata.

## Work in Progress

### December Summit Planning

A small group of Task Force members met several times to plan the agenda
for the December Summit and generate content for each session.

### Application Developer

Application Developer worked on refinements to the quarterly release
schedule and categorizing tasks and text search autofill suggestion
algorithm, carried out additional troubleshooting on failing test suite
for GeoBlacklight default installation, worked with Libraries IT to
migrate the geoportal production server to RHEL 7, and fixed a bug on
search results page to be responsive to width changes.

## Next Steps

-   Finalize agenda and sessions for the December Summit

-   Explore the use of Kibana for visualizing and analyzing content in
    the Geoportal
