---
date: 2015-12-01
---

# CIC Geospatial Data Discovery Project Update December 2015

<!-- more -->

## December Activities

### CIC Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the CIC Geospatial Task Force (members from all participant institutions). Topics included:


* Status updates from each institution
* Metadata Steering Group creation
* Discussion of pain points so far
* GeoBlacklight portal software demo

### Metadata Steering Group 

Metadata Coordinator proposed the creation of a Metadata Steering Group for the project. This group will draw on the varied experience within the Task Force, make decisions on best practices when creating geospatial metadata records, and refine workflows for the project.

The group will consist of volunteers from Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, and Wisconsin and will begin meeting in January. 

### Metadata Editor 

After testing various options, Metadata Coordinator and Project Manager settled on GeoNetwork as a collaborative online metadata editing tool to be used by all participating institutions.

## Work in Progress

### Metadata Workflows 

Metadata Coordinator developed a set of standardized workflows for preparing geospatial metadata records for inclusion in the geoportal. The process includes record submission, metadata evaluation, metadata transformation, metadata editing, and quality control checks. 

The Metadata Coordinator is now documenting the workflow with an accompanying glossary, and it will be implemented during our second round of record ingest.

### Metadata Coordination

Metadata Coordinator began setting up regular one-on-one meetings with individual institutions to discuss institutional-specific questions or issues.

### Metadata Creation & Transformation 

Metadata Coordinator carried out the first round of collecting records for the project.  Each of the nine institutions submitted metadata files that served as test sets. The result was a cross-section of typical records from different states and allowed experimentation with several methods of transforming them into the standard chosen for the project.

Metadata Coordinator also published the [first of a series of blog posts](https://sites.google.com/a/umn.edu/cic-geospatial-data-discovery-project/blog-1) on using ArcGIS Metadata Conversion tools.

## Next Steps

* Create an early (alpha) version of the portal by the end of January. A load of completed records into a test portal will help streamline the record ingest process.
* Have a working cloud version of GeoNetwork up and running by the end of January
* Complete metadata creation workflow documentation and accompanying glossary of terms used by the end of January.