---
date: 2016-02-01
---

# CIC Geospatial Data Discovery Project Update February 2016

<!-- more -->

## February Activities

### CIC Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the CIC Geospatial Task Force (members from all participant institutions). Topics included:

* Status updates from each institution
* Metadata Steering Group update
* Promotion & Outreach funds
* Digitized Maps update

### Metadata Workflow

Improvements have been made to the workflow for metadata editing. Task force members are now able to batch edit their metadata records via spreadsheets that are imported into GeoNetwork. This will be an essential method for adding online linkages and editing title formats for large groups of records.

### Digitized Maps

Began investigating potential workflows for digitized maps. This involved experimenting with translating MARC records into the ISO format and methods for merging metadata from the records for both physical and digital versions of a map. 

## Work in Progress

### Second Round of Records

Participant institutions have submitted a second round of metadata records. So far in the second round, each institution submitted between 20 and 425 records for inclusion in the geoportal.

### GeoNetwork Instance 

Work continues on the effort to stand up a UMN virtual server for GeoNetwork to allow for collaborative metadata editing and transformation. The virtual server has been requested and should be available in early March.

## Next Steps

* Have a working version of GeoNetwork up and running by mid-March
* Continue processing the second round of metadata records
* Develop workflows for including digitized maps in the geoportal by the end of April
* Develop training materials for Task Force members related to editing metadata records in GeoNetwork by the end of March