---
date: 2016-01-01
---

#  CIC Geospatial Data Discovery Project Update January 2016

<!-- more -->


## Selection of portal software

GeoBlacklight

As detailed in the [Project Charter](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0Bw-n3BDfLcu8Q3RicF9UcUZfWmc), the entire CIC Geospatial Task force participated in a discussion of the portal software options at the Project Summit in November, including generating [a list of pros and cons](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11058ip4c9mhHna_Fy_ZokCrQYxMWhDmZKxBNHK6CYLQ/edit?usp=sharing) for each platform. In the end, the consensus was to use GeoBlacklight, based mainly on the ability to facet, URL durability, Search Engine Optimization compatibility, flexible and responsive design capabilities, thorough documentation, and developer community momentum and support.

## January Activities

### CIC Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the CIC Geospatial Task Force (members from all participant institutions). Topics included:

* Status updates from each institution
* New workflow documentation overview
* Discussion of digitized maps available from institutions
* Outreach and promotion discussion

### Geo4LibCamp 

Two members of the Task Force attended [Geo4LibCamp 2016](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/Geo4LibCamp+2016) at Stanford. This was a week-long conference and workshop event focused on repositories and associated services for geospatial data. The primary focus was on GeoBlacklight and highlights included planning for the first major release version of GeoBlacklight and collaborating on an “interchange” format and set of elements for metadata records.

### Metadata Steering Group

The Metadata Steering Group held its initial meeting, agreed on goals, discussed challenges encountered so far, and assigned short-term tasks. Plans include a Best Practices guide for mapping metadata elements between standards, preferred methods of entering metadata in ArcGIS and GeoNetwork, and recommended metadata elements and formats.

### GeoBlacklight Test Instance

The first group of test records was put through the entire workflow, transformed and uploaded to our [test instance of GeoBlacklight](http://45.55.44.228:3000/). Experimenting with these records allowed for a meaningful revision of the conceptual workflow developed at the Project Summit in November.

## Work in Progress

### Second Round of Records

Now that the workflows are in place, participant institutions are submitting the second round of metadata records for initial processing.

### GeoNetwork Instance 

Work continues on the effort to stand up a UMN virtual server for GeoNetwork to allow for collaborative metadata editing and transformation. Though the initial technical setup is taking longer than anticipated, the resulting software configuration will be that much more useful due to careful planning.

## Next Steps


* Have a working version of GeoNetwork up and running by the end of February
* Continue processing the second round of metadata records
* Exploration of the next data type (digitized maps) will begin in February