---
date: 2019-11-01
---

# Project Update: November 2019

<!-- more -->
## November Highlights

### SLG Meeting recap and next steps

The project delivered a Strategic Planning
Update to the BTAA Library Directors for their November meeting. John Butler also presented on the project at the meeting. The upcoming actionable items include creating a licensed data pilot and writing a service impact report.

### Licensed data pilot in progress

Two licensed data applications, Social Explorer and LandScan, were selected for a licensed data pilot. The application developer and product owner worked together to create sample records that include a custom list of direct links to authorization pages for each institution.

Licensed records will be listed as “Restricted” and users will be able to filter restricted records by institution. These changes required 2 new custom metadata elements - one for the links and one for the institution names.

The next step is to add temporal ranges to the records using another new metadata element that will allow users to find resources that span across their search parameters.

Once the layout of these licensed data items are finalized, we will solicit the authorization links from each institution and publish the records.


## Activities

### November 2019 Statistics

* Total records: 22,734
* Pageviews: 7,374
* Sessions: 1,159
* Unique users: 819


### Application Development

-   Created a list of developer's contributions to
    GeoBlacklight 
-   Implemented an enhancement for adding date ranges to records (rather  than the default of single years)
-   Fixed numerous incompatibility issues with Windows browsers

### Collections

-   Added 436 new records from 4 new collections
-   Added 23 new collection level records


## Committees and Working Groups

### Steering Committee

-   Directing committees to compile list of help content topics

### Collections Development Committee

-   Developing new collections strategy that includes interactive  applications
-   Created list of help content topics about geospatial data and maps

### Communications Committee

-   Held a Communications sprint - attended by 4 participants that wrote 10 blog posts
-   Published 4 blog posts

### Interface Committee

-   Reviewed facet specific Google analytics for the geoportal
-   Created list of help content topics specific to using the geoportal

### Metadata Committee

-   Reviewed challenges of cataloging licensed data
-   Created list of help content topics to be placed on dedicated
    Geospatial Metadata help website

### ArcGIS Enterprise Organization Working Group

-   Extended work plan into 2020 for phase two - piloting using ArcGIS Online to host web services for a small subset of data from several institutions