---
date: 2019-12-01
---

# Project Update: December 2019

<!-- more -->

## December Highlights

### Implementing Directions from the Strategic Leadership Group

Following the recommendations from the SLG fall meeting, we recently
focused on two of the directions: developing a licensed data pilot and
advocating for IIIF at local institutions:

Licensed Data Pilot: We completed the first phase of this pilot with two licensed
applications 
that were selected and published to our development site. This required
a new metadata element, two new facets on the search interface, and a
custom link access panel. The next step will be a Licensed Data
Implementation Working Group to evaluate the results, compile the
metadata for additional licensed resources.

IIIF Manifests: We implemented a IIIF Viewer earlier this year that
supports multi-part objects, but the image service must conform to a
specification called Manifests. We worked with developers at the
University of Michigan to newly create these Manifests and were able to
add them for all of Michigan's 802
maps.
We also discovered that the University of Minnesota's UMedia system
already supported Manifests, and we were able to add them for all of
Minnesota's 1045 UMedia map
records.
This advancement solved several long standing errors with the display of
atlases and two-sided maps from both collections.

### Looking Ahead

We contracted with our Application Developer for the full year of 2020
and created a B1G Geoportal Roadmap
2020.
The Roadmap includes the planned user testing in the spring, attendance
at Geo4LibCamp2020, and regular code sprints. Our main goal is to
develop a prototype of a backend Administrative Workflow Interface to
manage the metadata records in the geoportal. This tool would be
beneficial to the B1G project as well as other GeoBlacklight projects.

We are also continuing our sprint model for committee activities into
the spring. We plan to hold two sprints: one for creating Help content
and one for cleaning up the metadata for scanned maps.

## Activities

### December 2019 Statistics

* Total records: 23,560
* Pageviews: 4539
* Sessions: 885
* Unique users: 648


### Application Development

-   Worked with [Mirador IIIF
    Viewer](https://projectmirador.org/) developers to identify
    bugs and implement image download plugin

-   Reconfigured Solr text searching algorithms - identified a bug that
    was submitted to GeoBlacklight/Blacklight

-   Improved the date search capabilities by expanding how a record is
    indexed. Instead of just single years, a record can represent a date
    range

## Collections

-   Obtained different format of IIIF service that enables multipart
    items for existing maps in geoportal:

    -   804 maps from University of Michigan

    -   1034 maps from University of Minnesota

-   Added new Wisconsin GIS records:

    -   24 records from Wisconsin Coastal project

    -   534 NAIP imagery records from
        Wisconsin 

-   Incorporated 4 new county open data portals

-   Re-accessioned all ArcGIS Open Data Portals: added 277 new records,
    retired 33


## Committees and Working Groups

### Steering Committee

-   Created a Task Force Member Exit
    Checklist  to prevent knowledge and document transfer loss

-   Charged Licensed Data Implementation Working
    Group 

-   Charged Impact Report Working
    Group 
-   Closed SLG Working Group

### Collections Development Committee

-   Updated draft of collections
    strategy 

### Communications Committee

-   Organized submitted Help topics

-   Set a date for sprint on Help topics and created an FAQ about it


### Interface Committee

-   Developing user/usability tests for early spring 2020

### Metadata Committee

-   Planning for a spring metadata sprint

### Map Scanning Workflow Working Group

-   Completed draft of investigation into workflows at different
    institutions and related
    literature 


### ArcGIS Enterprise Organization Working Group

-   Extended work plan into 2020 for phase two - piloting using ArcGIS Online to host web services for a small subset of data from several institutions
