---
date: 2016-08-01
---

# Project Update August 2016

<!-- more -->



## August Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Geoportal - Initial Thoughts

-   Promoting the Geoportal

-   Collection Development - Non-BTAA submitted Data Sets

### Geoportal Launched

The [Big Ten Academic Alliance Geoportal](https://geo.btaa.org/)
officially launched on August 10! The initial launch included over 2,300
metadata records.

### Documentation & Outreach

Project Metadata Coordinator published documentation for working with
digitized map metadata records in Omeka, created new graphics to use in
promoting the project, and wrote several blog posts documenting the
project workflows and methods. The [[blog post announcing the
Geoportal]](http://geospatialmetadatalibrarian.blogspot.com/2016/08/big-ten-academic-alliance-geoportal.html)
will be used as a basis for further announcements, including the Big Ten
Academic Alliance Fall Newsletter.

## Work in Progress

### Interface Steering Group

The Interface Steering Group (led by Mara Blake) began meeting to start
assessing the interface, working on User Testing, and hiring a student
to help with usability testing. The group will be coordinating with the
Metadata Steering Group as many perceived issues have to do with
metadata input, rather than interface output.

### Scripting and Automation

Project Metadata Coordinator met with University of Minnesota Libraries
Web Development staff to work on cleaning and expanding Python scripts
for harvesting, editing, and publishing metadata records; also met with
programmer from NYU regarding the GeoBlacklight plugin for Omeka.

### Digitized Maps

Work has begun to develop and standardize workflows for the
transformation and ingest of metadata records for digitized maps. Much
of the work will be concentrated on adding bounding box coordinates to
the metadata records that lack this information.

## Next Steps

-   Interface Steering Group will be conducting user testing and will report back by the end of December

-   Interface Steering Group will create a How To page to assist users
by the end of September

-   Develop digitized map metadata workflows by the end of October

-   Continue processing the second round of metadata records

-   Form a Collection Development Steering Group by mid-October (to
identify and prioritize non-BTAA data sets for ingest by the end
of December)
