---
date: 2018-06-01
---
# Project Update June 2018
<!-- more -->

## June Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee & Working Group Updates

-   Travel Funding

-   Open Data Portals Inventory

-   Communications - Blog Posts

### Project Update

-   There are currently 13,229 records in the Geoportal, an 2% increase
    over the previous month.

    -   Pageviews: 4,377

    -   Sessions: 806

    -   Unique users: 579

### Application Developer

Application Developer added new feedback form on the production site ‒
this feature appears on every page and will allow users a more direct
way to give feedback and report issues.

### Coordination & Documentation

Project Metadata Coordinator produced a Quarterly Bulletin for Q3
2018 and also formed a User Personas and Stories Working Group which will
provide illustrative context for our audience and stakeholders in order
to guide development of the geoportal and potential project expansion.

## Work in Progress

### Committees & Working Groups

Collection Development Committee reviewed the deliverables from the
ArcGIS Working Group and discussed scanned map workflows and how to
include interactive mapping applications in the Geoportal.

Communication Committee is finalizing a Communication Channels
survey for Task Force members to assess how best to promote our project and the Geoportal and is overseeing a monthly blog post from each institution.

Interface Committee reviewed data from the second round of usability
testing, especially how best to configure the facets on the search
pages.

Metadata Committee discussed subject facet simplification ‒ for example,
a "genre" facet instead of "resource type" and also how to promote and
share the ArcGIS Working Group final report.

ArcGIS Working Group completed their work on the Best Practices for
Open Data Portals guide (for data providers) with a focus on publishing services and metadata creation in ArcGIS Online. The group will be sunsetted.

## Next Steps

### Analytics Working Group

-   Meet with Application Developer to review analytics
    possibilities

### Collection Development Committee

-   Review analytics possibilities related to collection development

### Communications Committee

-   Create an External Communications Plan

-   Conduct an internal survey of communication channels available
    to Task Force members

### Interface Committee

-   Compile a report based on the results of usability testing

### Metadata Committee

-   Review metadata resources site and new facet on development site

-   Steering Committee

-   Examine action items from the December Summit
