---
date: 2018-11-01
---
# Project Update November 2018
<!-- more -->

## November Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee, Working Group, and Product Owner Updates

-   GIS Day activities at each institution

-   Continuation Proposal review

### Project Update

-   There are currently 16,262 records in the Geoportal, an 0.3%
    increase over the previous month.

    -   Pageviews: 4454

    -   Sessions: 771

    -   Unique users: 599

### Application Developer

The Application Developer updated the GeoBlacklight Icons to correctly
display the label for Ohio State, improved the button layout on the
advanced search form, reorganized the link buttons on the item view
pages, added a "Clear Search" button, and designed a new homepage.

### Coordination & Documentation

The Project Metadata Coordinator worked with the two UMN Graduate
Research Assistants and the Spatial Analyst & Curator to update the
project's Python harvesting script in order to streamline harvesting
from a large number of portals at once.

## Work in Progress

Open Data Survey: The Project Metadata Coordinator and Graduate RAs
have made significant progress on the ongoing project to fully survey the availability of open data from all counties and large cities within the Big Ten region.

### Committees & Working Groups

Collection Development Committee evaluated and approved a potential
collection for ingest from the University of Minnesota's Institute on
the Environment (by way of Stanford).

Communication Committee completed a draft of an External Communication Plan and approved the November blog post.

Interface Committee worked with Application Developer to design a new
homepage with the map search at the top and selectable image boxes for
different geospatial resource genres. They also contributed
recommendations on how to improve the item page layout with more clearly
delineated link buttons and removal of unused GeoBlacklight functions.

Analytics Working Group completed their final report that determines what analytics the project should capture and display.

Map Scanning Workflow Working Group held their second meeting and
completed a draft of a best practices workflow.

## Next Steps

### Communications Committee

-   Members will be meeting with communications professionals at
    three different institutions to review draft communications
    plan.

-   After communications professionals provide input, the draft will
    be shared with the Steering Committee

### Interface Committee

-   Will run another test using heat mapping tools to analyze what
    features of the homepage users click on

### Metadata Committee

-   Committee will focus on developing metadata outreach strategies
    to strengthen connections with data providers.

### SLG Working Group

-   Will refine interview questions for SLG group to ask to library
    administrators

-   Will develop background material to quickly inform
    administrators about project

### Map Scanning Workflow Working Group

-   will refine and add more details to their first draft.

### Analytics Working Group

-   Will be sunsetted
