---
date: 2019-10-01
---

# Project Update: October 2019

<!-- more -->

## Highlights

### Strategic Leadership Group (SLG) in person meeting

The SLG met at the end of October to review potential ideas for project
expansion and sustainability. The group recommended moving forward with
incorporating licensed data, creating a permanent advisory board, and
doing further research in the areas of outreach, web services, and
qualitative evaluation.

### New tools for catching and troubleshooting geoportal errors

Finding and fixing broken links is an ongoing challenge for the geoportal. Several new features were developed during this month's application development sprint to address error handling:

-   New administrative view: Adding "/admin" to any record in the geoportal will now produce a page that displays when the record was  indexed, the Solr metadata, and the status of each link and image.
-   Users will now be alerted to missing or misconfigured web services with a "Network Error" message. Slow web services have a "Data loading" button to indicate that the user must wait for it to display.
-   Clustering was implemented for feature services to speed up rendering time and eliminate the problem of the application freezing  when loading a very large dataset.
-   Lastly, the monthly broken link reports were adjusted to be more manageable by listing only problem links instead of all.

## Activities

### October 2019 Statistics

* Total records: 22,275
* Pageviews: 4910
* Sessions: 1287
* Unique users: 1079


### Application Development

-   Interviewed application developer candidates
-   Held local development sprint. Read report
    here. 

### Collections

-   Replaced all Wisconsin records to point to their new geoportal
-   Added 235 new ArcGIS online records


## Committees and Working Groups

### Steering Committee

-   Synthesized committee discussions of licensed data and help pages

### Collections Development Committee

-   Developing new collections strategy that includes interactive
    applications

### Communications Committee

-   Scheduled a Communications sprint for mid November
-   Published 2 blog posts

### Interface Committee

-   Reviewed how to consider tracked user events (clicking on facets, tools) for interface design
-   Laid out ideas for identifying licensed data and its source in the geoportal

### Metadata Committee

-   Outlined criteria for how to clean up metadata for a planned metadata sprint

### ArcGIS Enterprise Organization Working Group

-   Completed a report to describe geospatial web services for SLG in-person meeting in October

-   Consulted developer at Princeton about the technical requirements for GeoServer
