---
date: 2017-10-01
---

# Project Update October 2017
<!-- more -->

## October Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Contacting Data Providers

-   December Summit Planning

-   Presentations Discussion

### Project Update

-   There are currently 8,283 records in the Geoportal, an 4% increase
    > over the previous month.

-   Usage Statistics (October 2017)

    -   Pageviews: 4,014

    -   Sessions: 767

    -   Unique users: 562

### Publications & Outreach

Article authored by Task Force members was [[published in]
*[Code4Lib]*](http://journal.code4lib.org/articles/12932). The
article describes the methods of our comprehensive usability evaluation
and outlines the results of the evaluation, how we interpreted our
findings, and how we adapted them into recommendations for improving the user interface of the Geoportal.

Task Force members co-presented a session at the Minnesota GIS/LIS
Annual Conference in Bemidji, MN: Keeping a Geoportal Alive & Healthy:
Lessons from the Big Ten Academic Alliance Geospatial Data Project.

Task Force members co-presented a session at the North American
Cartographic Information Society Annual Meeting in Montreal, Quebec,
Canada: BTAA Geoportal: An update on Collections, Metadata and Interface
Design.

Project Metadata Coordinator published a blog
post highlighting new features of the Geoportal, participated in Geo4LibCamp 2018 Planning Committee meetings, and attended the FGDC monthly Metadata Working Group meeting.

## Work in Progress

### Application Developer Activities

The worked with UMN Libraries IT to perform server upgrade on
development instance of Geoportal, worked on design enhancements for
search results and item pages, particularly for displaying thumbnails
and improving the layout, and compiled a list of image collections in
the BTAA Geoportal by institution, hosting type, and collection
platform.

### Technology Work Plan

The Application Developer met with Project Metadata Coordinator & UMN
Spatial Analyst to discuss implementation of quarterly work plans for
new version releases of the Geoportal. The group also developed a
Quarterly Milestone document and a roadmap strategy for the project instance of GeoBlacklight.

## Next Steps

-   Planning sessions for the December Summit

-   Explore the use of Kibana for visualizing and analyzing content in
    the Geoportal
