---
date: 2017-07-01
---

# Project Update July 2017
<!-- more -->

## July Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   GeoBlacklight Code Sprint announcement

-   Interface Updates

-   Strategic Leadership Group Updates

-   Maintenance Issues with ArcGIS Open Data Portals

### Project Update

-   There are currently 6,894 records in the Geoportal, an 3% increase
    over the previous month.

-   Usage Statistics (July 2017)

    -   Pageviews: 4,285

    -   Sessions: 525

    -   Unique users: 335

### Interface and Usability Article

Three Task Force members from the Interface Steering Group submitted the
final draft of an article that was provisionally accepted by Code4Lib
for inclusion in the October 2017 issue.

### Technology

Project Metadata Coordinator completed the transition to an externally
hosted version of GeoNetwork.

The project Application Developer submitted a bug fix that was
incorporated into the GeoBlacklight code base regarding bounding boxes
and a faulty map extent display.

### Outreach and Collaboration: GeoBlacklight Summer Code Sprint

The Project Metadata Coordinator and the Project Application Developer
joined other developers and metadata specialists from New York
University and Princeton University to participate in the second
GeoBlacklight Summer Code Sprint from July 24 - August 4, 2017. With
input from developers at Stanford University, Lewis & Clark College,
VecNet, and Cornell University, the sprinters selected a number of goals
to work on, including bug fixes, upgrading dependent libraries,
improving the user interface, and exploring changes to the metadata
schema. The code sprint resulted in a major new feature that displays
standards based XML metadata as HTML in the interface, an enhancement
that has been requested by many GeoBlacklight users.

The BTAA Application Developer directly contributed to a number of
behind the scenes minor code changes, including a Leaflet update and a
webkit deprecation. The Project Metadata Coordinator created and
distributed a survey to six institutions hosting or developing a
GeoBlacklight instance with questions about their technology
architecture, project structure and scope, and metadata workflows. Both
of the BTAA participants spent considerable time collaborating with NYU
and Princeton on explorations of two larger developments initiated
during the sprint: the possibility of migrating to a DCAT based metadata
schema and improving the usability of the map search feature. These
projects are still in progress and will be revisited in the coming
months.

## Work in Progress

### ArcGIS Open Data Portal Working Group

The Project Metadata Coordinator identified numerous deficiencies in the
ArcGIS Open Data Portal platform and convened a working group to address
the problems and develop recommendations.

### Strategic Leadership Group

The Project Lead and AUL Sponsors worked to finalize the membership for
the Strategic Leadership Group.

## Next Steps

-   Planning sessions for the Fall Summit (discussion at August Task
    Force meeting)

-   Metadata Collaborations with Stanford and NYU: The Project Metadata Coordinator and the Spatial Analyst/Curator will be leading a workshop with librarians from Stanford and NYU at the International FOSS4G Conference in August. The Project Metadata Coordinator is also consulting with librarians from both universities to co-author an article about geospatial metadata.
