---
date: 2018-01-01
---
# Project Update January 2018
<!-- more -->

## January Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee Updates

-   Committee Assignments and Expectations

-   Working Groups Needed

### Project Update

-   There are currently 8,577 records in the Geoportal, an 0% increase
    over the previous month.

-   Usage Statistics (January 2018)

    -   Pageviews: 4,525

    -   Sessions: 688

    -   Unique users: 486

-   Over [5500 records from BTAA
    project](https://github.com/OpenGeoMetadata/big-ten) were
    added to [Stanford's Earthworks](https://earthworks.stanford.edu/) site

### Application Developer / Winter Code Sprint

Application Developer participated in the [two week code sprint for
GeoBlacklight](https://github.com/geoblacklight/geoblacklight/projects/1)
‒ developed a GeoBlacklight plugin that will harvest and display image
thumbnails, reviewed and approved pull requests to show the "more" link
for the Institution facet, and to improved Travis, a GitHub integration
used by GeoBlacklight.

Project Metadata Coordinator hosted GeoBlacklight Code Sprint standup
meetings daily for developers from five universities during the two week
sprint, documented sprint activities, and updated metadata documentation
for the GeoBlacklight schema.

### Geo4LibCamp

Six Task Force members attended Geo4LibCamp at Stanford, including
participation in a panel discussion, as well as proposing and leading
unconference sessions. Highlights included sessions on governance, index maps, building a spatial data infrastructure, developing compelling stories on the importance of geospatial data, lessons learned, and a discussion on
consortial metadata.

### Coordination & Documentation

Project Metadata Coordinator developed and shared new committee
documents (guidelines, charter template & meeting agenda) and drafted a 2018 Quarter 1 Bulletin with updates and future plans.

## Work in Progress

### Index Maps

UMN Spatial Data Analyst experimented with
[OpenIndexMaps](https://openindexmaps.github.io/) as a way to
handle atlases or multi-map sets in the BTAA Geoportal. Work includes
learning about the structure of GeoJSON files, creating test cases for
county plat maps and multi-map sets, and developing a transferable
workflow.

### Interface

Project Metadata Coordinator consulted with the Application Developer
and a developer from Princeton to advise on thumbnail generation and
display for the Geoportal.

## Next Steps

-   SLG Working Group has been formed and will:

    -   conduct an internal environmental scan surveying data
        repositories for participating institutions

    -   define stakeholders for the BTAA Geoportal
