---
date: 2019-01-01
---

# Project Update: January 2019

<!-- more -->

## Highlights

The Communications Committee finalized an overall Communications Plan
with a Strategy, and they established a working Calendar to schedule blog posts, new tutorials, and articles for library news pages. The new plan incorporates content from all of the committees and spreads their submissions out over the year. A [new Twitter account](https://twitter.com/geobtaa) was also set up, and the Product Owner will share blog posts via this platform.

The Product Owner and the Application Developer participated in the
[GeoBlacklight Winter Codesprint](https://github.com/geoblacklight/geoblacklight/projects/3). The codesprint resulted in [GeoBlacklight
2.0](https://github.com/geoblacklight/geoblacklight/releases/tag/v2.0.0),
a major release. This version was necessary in order to stay current
with the underlying framework, Blacklight, which recently upgraded to
its own version 7.0. Many of the changes are behind the scenes
(Bootstrap, Solr, and Rails) and may not be noticeable to the user.
However, several bug fixes and enhancements were included in
GeoBlacklight 2.0 that will improve user experience:

-   An old
    [issue](https://github.com/geoblacklight/geoblacklight/issues/324)
    (identified in 2015!) was finally addressed that implements
    spatial relevance algorithms in the map search. This means that
    items that most closely fit the selected map extent will rise to
    the top of the search results. The BTAA Interface Committee had
    identified this as a major priority for this sprint, and our
    Application Developer's work on this was essential to solving this
    challenging issue.

-   Two enhancements were added that will enable multipart items. This
    is advantageous, because we have held off on including individual
    pages from an atlas or map series, as having hundreds of records
    with nearly identical metadata would clutter the search interface.
    The first enhancement is a method for handling parent-child
    records that suppresses child records in a search query. For
    example, an atlas with hundreds of records representing individual
    pages would only show up once in the search results. The child
    pages will only be accessible from the parent record page. The
    second enhancement is an improvement to the display of digital
    index maps that allow users to navigate by map directly to a page
    in an atlas or a sheet in a map series.


## Activities

### January 2019 Statistics 

* Total records: 18,195
* New records in January: 769
* Pageviews: 5336 
* Sessions: 695
* Unique users: 460



### Application Development 

-   The Application Developer was successfully migrated to a new role as
    an independent contractor on the project.

-   [GeoBlacklight Winter
    Codesprint](https://github.com/geoblacklight/geoblacklight/projects/3).
    Accomplishments contributed by BTAA staff include:

    -   Framework upgrade to Blacklight 7.0

    -   Improvement in spatial relevance searches so items with a best
        fit in the map extent will rise to the top of the search
        results.

    -   Updated documentation for the metadata schema and the
        application's test records

    -   Incorporating Leaflet-rails directly into application to allow
        for custom Leaflet development

    -   Adding functions to run open source scripts (called "Teaspoon")
        that test the Javascript code in the application

    -   Documenting how to install the plugin for static images (plugin
        was written by the Application Developer during 2018)

    -   Fixing compatibility issues with ArcGIS Feature Layer Services

    -   Reviewing and merging commits by other developers

Other new features that will be beneficial to the BTAA Geoportal
include:

-   Improvements to the display of digital index maps

-   A method for handling parent-child records that suppresses child
    records in a search query.


-   The BTAA Geoportal is scheduled to be upgraded to GeoBlacklight 2.0
    during Q1 2019.


-   The BTAA project will be looking for a full time Application
    Developer to start during Q3 2019.

### Coordination & Documentation

-   Completed and shared Q1 2019 Bulletin

-   Created an internal project dashboard to track committee and research assistant work


### Collections

-   Published 693 new scanned map records

-   Processed metadata for over 5,000 images from multipart items
    (atlases and sheet maps) that will be published when GeoBlacklight
    2.0 is implemented.

-   Refreshed all records from ArcGIS Open Data Portals with an improved
    harvesting script.

-   Creating index maps for scanned atlases from Minnesota and Iowa

## Committees and Working Groups

### Communications Committee

-   Presented Communications  Strategy  and Calendar to Steering Committee and Task Force

-   Published Contributor Spotlight blog post (University of
    Michigan

-   Published first Featured Collection blog post

-   Set up social media account [https://twitter.com/geobtaa](https://twitter.com/geobtaa) and began sharing content

### Collections Development Committee

-   Developing blog content for highlighting collections and data
    providers

### Interface Committee

-   Review heat mapping results and recommend potential homepage changes

-   Develop user testing to assess collection level records and
    multipart items in GeoBlacklight 2.0

### Metadata Committee

-   Developed initial outreach plans that include metadata tutorials for
    researchers and data providers


-   Gathering ideas for the metadata tutorial for researchers that will
    include how to cite data and maps

### SLG Working Group

-   Completed drafts of documents to support the SLG project to gauge
    interest in archiving plans.