---
date: 2018-09-01
---
# Project Update September 2018
<!-- more -->

## September Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee, Working Group, and Product Owner Updates

-   Placeholder records

-   Continuation Proposal update

### Project Update

-   There are currently 15,212 records in the Geoportal, an 5% increase
    over the previous month.

    -   Pageviews: 3,706

    -   Sessions: 668

    -   Unique users: 470

### Application Developer

Application Developer worked to complete the Quarter 3 release, which
includes the Blacklight advanced search plugin, Blacklight date range
limit plugin, HTML metadata support, and support for OpenIndexMaps.

### Coordination & Documentation

Project Metadata Coordinator hired an additional Graduate Research
Assistant for metadata work, created writeup of Project Management App
history for the project, sunsetted Users and Personas Working Group, and
summarized committee discussions on adding interactive
applications/collection records to the geoportal.

## Work in Progress

### Continuation Proposal

Project Lead, Product Owner, and Strategic Leadership group are working
on a continuation proposal for strategic directions and funding
beginning in July 2019.

### Committees & Working Groups

Collection Development Committee continued discussion on how best to
analyze what types of records to include or exclude from the Geoportal
and discussed the placeholder record pilot projects.

Communications Committee reviewed September blog
post and began work on an External Communication Plan based on feedback from Task Force members based on the Communication Channels
survey.

Interface Committee reviewed the advanced search and date range limit
plugins; discussed future plans for redesign of homepage and item view
page.

Metadata Committee reviewed metadata elements on data set landing page
and genre/form terms for scanned maps feedback.

Analytics Working Group working to finalize analytics recommendations.

## Next Steps

### Analytics Working Group

-   Complete final analytics report

-   Collection Development Committee

-   Develop more detailed framework for collection scope by creating
    a list of Foundational Layers for refined curation strategy

### Communications Committee

-   Will formulate an External Communication Plan by December 2018

### Interface Committee

-   Develop mockup of new homepage and item view page design

### Metadata Committee

-   Implement list of genre/form terms for scanned maps; develop
    plan for metadata outreach to ArcGIS Open Data Portal
    administrators
