---
date: 2017-03-01
---

# Project Update March 2017
<!-- more -->

## March Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Ongoing Maintenance

-   Outreach & Promotion

### Project Updates

-   There are currently 5,624 records in the Geoportal, an 4% increase
    > over the previous month.

### Outreach & Promotion

Task Force members presented a poster about the project at the
Association of College and Research Libraries Conference in Baltimore.
The poster received positive feedback and sparked conversation during
the entire hour-long session.

Proposals to present metadata workshops were accepted for the Minnesota
GIS Consortium Spring Workshops (May) and the Free and Open Source
Software for Geospatial Conference in Boston (August).

### Documentation

The Project Metadata Coordinator worked on Metadata Handbook, an updated and expanded version of the project's metadata workflow, upgraded the internal system for tracking records with new templates for "Collection Management Tickets" to facilitate the increasing number of collections as well as the complicated re-accessioning process for new, changed, and deleted records, published a blog post about Geo4LibCamp 2017, and wrote a draft of task force member responsibilities and expectations to better inform current and potential partner institutions.

### Continuation Proposal

Project Lead completed the continuation proposal for the project beyond
June 2017. The proposal was sent to the BTAA Library Directors for
review.

## Work in Progress

### Digitized Maps

Work is moving forward to add digitized map collections from
participating institutions to the Geoportal. Over the past several
months, [[over 1,800 digitized map
records]](https://geo.btaa.org/?bbox=-180+-59.175928+180+79.560546&f%5Blayer_geom_type_s%5D%5B%5D=Paper+Map)
have been added. Other related work involves exploring parent-child
record relationships with regards to multi-part digital items (atlases
and multi-part sheet maps).

### Maintenance

Task Force members continue to work on Broken Link Reports generated by
the University of Minnesota Web Development staff and organized and
distributed by the Project Metadata Coordinator. This ongoing effort
will ensure that records in the portal are as accurate as possible.

## Next Steps

-   Interface Steering Group will be developing a user testing report by
    early April

-   Continue to develop digitized map metadata workflows

-   Continue processing incoming metadata records
