---
date: 2017-12-01
---
# Project Update December 2017

<!-- more -->

## December Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   Communication Plan Updates

-   Governance Model Draft

-   Project Summit Debrief

### Project Update

-   There are currently 8,577 records in the Geoportal, an 2% increase
    > over the previous month.

-   Usage Statistics (December 2017)

    -   Pageviews: 4,176

    -   Sessions: 595

    -   Unique users: 323

### December 2017 Project Summit

The summit took place at the University of Minnesota and was attended by
representatives from every participating institution. Please see the
December 2017 Project Summit Summary.

### Metadata Outreach & Communication

Project Metadata Coordinator added 2,373 scanned map records and 3,191
GIS records to OpenGeoMetadata to be utilized by other geoportals.

Project Metadata Coordinator published blog posts [[highlighting new
collections]](https://geobtaa.blogspot.com/2017/12/new-gis-scanned-map-records-fall-2017.html)
and [[detailing metadata harvesting and sorting
methods]](http://geospatialmetadatalibrarian.blogspot.com/2017/12/harvesting-from-ckan-and-sorting.html).

UMN Spatial Data Analyst worked on developing contact lists for
Minnesota governmental agencies to use in communicating about data
harvested for the BTAA Geoportal.

## Work in Progress

### Application Developer

Application Developer participated in, and presented at, the Project
Summit, contributed to pull requests for GeoBlacklight, participated in
the December developers call, and released a security fix for the BTAA
Geoportal.

### ArcGIS Working Group

UMN Spatial Data Analyst developed code to assess ESRI Open Data Portal
metadata quality and worked on a script to collect distribution format
information from DCAT metadata, which will be useful for working with
resources from DKAN data portals.

### Project Structure

All project participants responded to a survey about interest in serving
on the various project committees. The Steering Group then parsed out
the responses and assigned participants to the committees.

Strategic Leadership Group recommended the addition of a Product Owner
role. Product Owner was identified as the Project Metadata Coordinator.

## Next Steps

-   Finalize short-term Governance Model (Steering Committee) for
    approval by Strategic Leadership Group

-   Steering Committee to charge Working Groups to gather information
    needed by the Strategic Leadership Group
