---
date: 2018-05-01
---
# Project Update May 2018
<!-- more -->

## May Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Committee & Working Group Updates

-   Content Generation for Outreach

-   GeoBlacklight Summer Code Sprint

-   Quarterly Bulletin

### Project Update

-   There are currently 12,911 records in the Geoportal, an 3% increase
    over the previous month.

    -   Pageviews: 5,988

    -   Sessions: 833

    -   Unique users: 608

### Application Developer

Application Developer added new functionality on the development server,
including a new facet for resource type (dataset vs. image) to
facilitate differentiating between scanned maps and geospatial data and
a significant reconfiguration of the "show page" to include images for
items without IIIF and to prioritize the data/image preview rather than
the descriptive metadata.

### Coordination & Documentation

Project Metadata Coordinator created [Google
Site](https://sites.google.com/umn.edu/geospatial-metadata/home)
with information from a metadata workshop they co-led, along with other
geospatial metadata tutorials and best practices.

## Work in Progress

### Committees & Working Groups

Collection Development Committee discussed the pros/cons of ArcGIS Open
Data Portals, reviewed the draft output of analytics in Tableau,
and will be asking each institution to suggest several new collections
to contribute to the Geoportal.

Communication Committee is working on a Communication Channels survey
for Task Force members to assess how best to promote our project and the
Geoportal.

Interface Committee conducted a second round of usability testing and
will review the results at their next meeting.

Metadata Committee discussed the Best Practices for Open Data Portals
guide, facet limiting for the Data Type and Subject facets, and the
possibility of forming a working group to focus on subjects.

ArcGIS Working Group created a [Google Site
version](https://sites.google.com/umn.edu/geospatial-metadata/best-practice-guides)
of the [Best Practices for Open Data
Portals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1x6ZIlRXAv63y1Dqnvr4BFdEwvtQ5XXgdaZNwj8C2Tek/edit?usp=sharing)
guide (for data providers) with a focus on publishing services and
metadata creation in ArcGIS Online.

Analytics Working Group organized brainstormed ideas for what analytics
to collect and is working to tie those analytics to specific goals,
strategic directions, and/or needs from specific committees.

## Next Steps

### Analytics Working Group

-   Meet with Application Developer to review analytics
    possibilities

### Collection Development Committee

-   Review analytics possibilities related to collection development

### Communications Committee

-   Create an External Communications Plan

-   Conduct an internal survey of communication channels available
    to Task Force members

### Interface Committee

-   Analyze results of usability testing

-   Metadata Committee

-   Review metadata resources site and new facet on development site

### Steering Committee

-   Examine action items from the December Summit
