---
date: 2017-08-01
---

# Project Update August 2017
<!-- more -->

## August Activities

### BTAA Geospatial Task Force Meetings

Monthly, virtual meetings of the BTAA Geospatial Task Force (members
from all participant institutions). Topics included:

-   Status Updates from institutions

-   Steering Group Updates

-   GeoBlacklight Code Sprint

-   Strategic Leadership Group update

-   Fall Summit Planning

### Project Update

-   There are currently 7,532 records in the Geoportal, an 9% increase
    over the previous month.

-   Usage Statistics (August 2017)

    -   Pageviews: 4,861

    -   Sessions: 812

    -   Unique users: 532

### Publications & Outreach

Article authored by Task Force members was accepted for publication in
*Collaborative Librarianship*. The article describes the background and
origins of the project and focuses on collaborative workflows and
strategies for a successful multi-institution collaboration.

Article authored by Task Force members was submitted, pending
peer-review, for publication in *Code4Lib*. The article describes the
methods of our comprehensive usability evaluation and outlines the
results of the evaluation, how we interpreted our findings, and how we
adapted them into recommendations for improving the user interface of
the Geoportal.

Project Metadata Coordinator co-authored a [[blog
post]](https://geoblacklight.org/blog/2017/08/summer-code-concludes-and-geoblacklight-version-160-released) detailing Summer Code Sprint activities for GeoBlacklight website.

Project Metadata Coordinator is working with a librarian from NYU to
develop a rubric for scoring metadata quality, along with a forthcoming
article about the method.

### FOSS4G International Conference

Task Force members co-presented a half-day metadata workshop at the
FOSS4G International Conference, along with librarians from NYU and
Stanford.

Task Force members co-presented a session at the conference: Building
and Evaluating the User Experience of an Open Source Geoportal.

## Work in Progress

### Geoportal Updates

Project Metadata Coordinator and Web Development staff worked to
implement a new function to show browse and search results on a map as
clustered centroids and upgrade GeoBlacklight to version 1.6.0,
including a full HTML view for metadata.

### Collection Development

Collection Development Steering Group began work on a Collection
Development Policy and began discussion of what to include in a
Collection Development Plan.

### ArcGIS Working Group

Project Metadata Coordinator convened the ArcGIS Working Group in
response to systemic issues that have arisen with records from ArcGIS
Open Data Portals, including frequently changing unique identifiers,
which causes links to data sets to break. The group will investigate
ArcGIS Open Data sites, including the application's underlying
architecture and metadata capabilities. Deliverables will be in the form
of one or more reports that will determine and analyze existing
problems, develop recommendations for how these resources are included
in the BTAA Geoportal, and outline best practices for ArcGIS Open Data
administrators. The group will also evaluate if a standing technical
advisory group should be established for the BTAA:GDP project.

## Next Steps

-   Planning sessions for the December Summit

-   Explore the use of Kibana for visualizing and analyzing content in the Geoportal
